So I like many people sit around on youtube and just watch a bunch of
random videos. I typically try and watch like skate and surf videos
but alot of times I just watch the most random stuff. It makes my
"recommended" videos channel like super all over the place everything
from Dragonball Z to Will it Blend and everything in between. Well one
day I stumbled across a bunch of videos on perpetual motion.   

INSERT VIDEO

There's alot of misinformation out there including crazy shit like
chemtrails and 911 and all the other conspiracy theories in
between. I'm not saying crazy like they aren't true just crazy like
it's crazy and unrealistic to be true. So these perpetual motion
videos were kind of like that. Maybe some of them could be true but
most of the general public doesn't believe it. Well anyway some of the
ones I almost believed were the ones with magnets because to be quite
frank and blunt and vulgar. I don't fucking know how magnets work. Yes
I've created models of them using potential integrals, yes I've
simulated the interaction effects of electron flux from the sun and
yes I've even played with them but I still don't know how they can
create a force through empty space. So I watch this video.  

INSERT VIDEO

And I'm like......hmmmmm....maybe???? I mean a cpu fan and some
magnets. How hard could that be. I'll just build one myself. Then I
remembered I have two kids and my time is short so do I really want to
build one of these to test if a random youtuber was right or not?
No. So I watched a debunked video. 

INSERT VIDEO

And I was like see. That's how magnets are supposed to respond. They
just don't show you the entire ins and outs of the device so they
apparently put a small battery in them so that it looks like it's
working. Anyway. I kept petering around and I found out that perpetual
motion devices aren't new. People apparently went around a while back
and really tried to get these things going. According to wikipedia
(INSERT LINK), the US government got so many patent requests for
perpetual motion devices that they just started rejecting them
outright. People in the comments on youtube like to point out that the
second law of thermodynamics doesn't allow things like perpetual
motion to happen. Of course, that's what they want you to think. Is
what they say. Ok sheeple. Well anyway I kept going around on youtube
and found this perpetual motion video. 

INSERT VIDEO

And I was like bullshit. I'm a dynamicist. I understand Newton's laws,
where they come from, momentum, all that jazz from school. All that
stuff that some people argue is a waste of time. Well anyway. I
decided to sit down and derive the equations of motion for this
thing. I decided to put this derivation on Wikipedia to contribute to
a website that I strongly support both verbally and financially. You
can check out the full derivation here.  

INSERT LINK TO Wikipedia

-----WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE------

----see perpetual_motion.tex

----------------------------

With that full derivation and with the collision model (assuming
perfect collisions and no loss in energy you can simulate these
equations using any standard numerical solver. I'm using MATLAB here
because I'm most fluent in that language and animating is super super
easy.  

INSERT VIDEO OF PERPETUAL MOTION

So it works. Perpetual motion is totally possible. That is of course
if you assume there is no friction in the wheels or friction in any of
the bars. Not to mention I also assumed that all the energy from the
bars was completely transferred into kinetic energy in the main wheel
which is also bullshit. Anyway if you add any of these
non-conservative effects into the model you get kinetic energy which
looks like this.  

INSERT VIDEO OF PERPETUAL MOTION WITH FRICTION

Which means the perpetual motion device doesn't work. But alas
youtube. The place where anyone even the smallest and least
intelligent has a voice. Anyway. This was a fun project for me to test
my dynamics knowledge and I hope wikipedia and youtube enjoys my neat
little derivation and MATLAB videos. I also hope you enjoyed this trip
into perpectual motion devices. 
